I carry one of Bill’s original production [AMTAC Northman](https://amtacblades.com/) blades everywhere I can legally carry it, which is to say virtually everywhere. A fixed blade knife with a sheath designed to be worn in the front pocket, it is a small utility knife with design features that still enable it to be used defensively, though if you're actually planning to use a knife for defense, there are better designs to choose if you can help it. The knife arrives as a training package with a sheath, live blade, realistic blue training blade, and a storage sheath so you can store your live blade while using the carry sheath with the trainer. You know, because it's designed so that you can actually train with it, safely and realistically, in live force on force training. The sheath has a ferro rod for throwing sparks, and a thin velcro pouch for tinder, cash, maybe some fishing hooks and line. Things that arent appreciated until needed, but cost very little to carry in our daily lives, relatively speaking. 

The earliest known crafted tools in human history were sharpened stone flakes discovered in Kenya dated 3.3 million years, and though seemingly lost on humans of the modern first-world, the ability to cut and to make fire have been a critical human skill for quite literally all of our existence. While neither blade nor flame are neither normal necessities of the modern world, I believe we've begun to shed those tools prematurely, and that in the long-term this complacency will lead to us becoming less civilized, not more. Again, one man's opinon and while arguably still within broad of scope of my Substack I'm tidying up, it merits enumeration, and it does feed into overall mindset. Another reason for this is that I don't want to give readers who do not know me personally the wrong idea about my values, or portray myself as some violence-crazed lunatic. I abhor violence, but ascribe to the belief that it is better to be a warrior in a garden than a gardener in a war, and I'm not trying to wax Bushido or anything here, but training for armed conflict does bring a level of inner peace that isn't there when I don't train. I'm not trying to pen a manifesto or anything here, just had to throw that out there so I have a sign to tap if I give anyone the wrong idea by writing about some of this stuff. I know it isn't everybody's cup of tea, but it's a good knife and its merits deserve praise.
